#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Externalities and public goods in local seed systems: A Lab-in-the-field
 experiment among potato farmers in Uganda
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Smallholder farmers generally get their seeds through informal channels,
 particularly for low value bulky food crops.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Motivation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many farmers depend on informal seed systems 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "mcguire2016seed"

\end_inset

.
 In these systems, farmers obtain propagation material from previous harvest,
 and these seeds are then traded on the informal market.
 Sometimes, some selection is taking place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The importance of seed systems varies according to crops and farmers often
 use both informal and formal channels.
 While many farmers will use maize seed obtained from seed dealers, the
 (perceived) gains from using formal seed for lower value food security
 crops such as cassava or sweet potato may be too low.
 For other crops such as beans, the private sector may lack interest and
 public institutions may not be up to the task to fill the void.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Informal seed systems are generally affected by externalities.
 [david insert examples of issues related to open pollination, etc]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For potato, bacterial wilt is an important disease that affects the informal
 potato seed markets.
 Potato wilt bacterium is a soil-borne organism primarily inhabiting the
 roots.
 It is spread by irrigation water, flood waters and contaminated soil.
 The wilt bacterium is able to survive for periods up to 2-3 years in bare
 fallow soils.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Outbreaks of bacterial wilt in a particular location will set off a series
 of dynamics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Research questions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Investment in seed is too low due to externalities.
 In general, when externalities are present, compensation should lead to
 a pareto optimal outcome (Coase Theorem).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am not sure this is actually the main problem.
 Seed is a private good, so I don't thing that it is undersupplied because
 of the fact that returns can not be fully controlled.
 It is more like the kind of negative externalities that exist in ecological
 economics where a factory pollutes the water and as a result, people downstream
 can not fish anymore.
 The Coase theorem should apply here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the same time, there is something about seed that makes is kind of a
 public good.
 Genetic purity is something all users profit from, but as a result, individual
 users may not be incentivized to contribute to it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We should find out what games exist for these two different problems and
 then devise a game that combines these two.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The experimental game
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The game needs to include stylized facts related to potato cultivation and
 how seed is obtained by households in the village.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Potato farmers are allocated plots in a particular configuration of fields.
 On these fields, they have to grow potato.
 These potatoes can then be consumed or sold in the market as seed.
 Depending on the location of the field, one is exposed to externalities.
 In particular, irrigation water from plots that are located at higher altitudes
 contaminate plots at lower altitude.
 In this regards, the problem is similar to irrigation dilemmas 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "JANSSEN201265"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Treatments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a wide range of shocks or treatment that can be introduced into
 the game.
 One of the most obvious shocks would be an outbreak of bacterial wilt.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another shock may be to introduce tenure insecurity by randomly re-allocating
 farmers to plots between rounds of the game.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lab in the field experiments can also be used to test various policy interventio
ns.
 Here, examples include 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Treatments can be introduced after a number of rounds, allowing for within-perso
n comparisons.
 This can be used to simulate situations where, initially, there are sufficient
 resources within the community, but after some time a dilemma is presented
 and trade-offs have to be made.
 For instance, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "DEXELLE20122537"

\end_inset

 find that irrigation users in Tanzania are surprisingly altruistic, but
 if water scarcity is introduced as a shock, users start to prioritize efficienc
y over equity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Alternatively, treatments can be investigated using parallel experiments,
 where one group of villagers plays the game in one condition (low bacterial
 wilt infestation) and another group plays the game in the other condition
 (high bacterial wilt infestation).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Data collection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Data on the characteristics of the households is also collected, which can
 then be used to look for heterogeneity in response to treatments.
 These can include other experiments.
 For instance, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "doi:10.1111/obes.12058"

\end_inset

 use standard incentive compatible experiments experiments to measure time
 preference, and find that, patient irrigation users are more likely to
 trade-off equity and efficiency consideration by rotating who gets to used
 water in each round.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "LIFE_pot"
options "/home/bjvca/Dropbox (IFPRI)/NWO seed system devt Uganda proposal development/Study design/IFPRI_Style"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
