#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\emph on
E
\emph default
xternalities and public goods in local seed systems: A lab-in-the field
 experiment among potato farmers in Uganda
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Caroline Miehe
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many farmers depend on informal seed systems which means that they obtain
 propagation material from their previous harvest, and trade these seeds
 on the informal market.
 The importance of informal seed markets varies across crops and farmers
 often use both informal and formal channels.
 While many farmers use maize seed obtained from seed dealers, the (perceived)
 gains from using formal seed for lower value food security crops such as
 cassava or sweet potato may be too low.
 For other crops such as beans, the private sector may lack interest and
 public institutions may not be up to fill the void.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Informal seed systems are generally impacted by externalities.
 Farmers who want to produce clean seeds are affected by farmers of neighboring
 fields, for example due to cross-pollination.
 The informal potato seed market is particularly hindered by bacterial wilt.
 The potato wilt bacterium is a soil-borne organism primarily inhabiting
 roots.
 Importantly, it is spread by irrigation water, flood waters and contaminated
 soil.
 The wilt bacterium is able to survive for up to 2-3 years in bare fallow
 soils.
 Hence, an externality for the production of potato seeds arises from irrigation
 water flowing from contaminated soils to fields used for production which
 are located below the contaminated ones.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Informal seed systems in semi self-subsistent communities differ from standard
 textbook externality examples (and Coase theorem type solutions) because
 consumers of seed also have a stake in the production of clean seed.
 For instance, if farmers on plots located at higher altitudes in the village
 are not careful and contaminate lower located plots of potato seed producers,
 then the price of potato seed which these farmers have to pay in the future
 increases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As such, local seed systems provide an interesting case to model theoretically
 and test using lab-in-the field experiments.
 They present location dependent externalities similar to irrigation dilemmas.
 There is a wide range of shocks or treatments that can be introduced into
 the game.
 One of the most obvious ones would be an outbreak of bacterial wilt.
 Another shock may be the introduction of tenure insecurity by randomly
 re-allocating farmers to plots between rounds of the game.
 Alternatively, treatments can be investigated using parallel experiments,
 where one group of villagers plays the game in one condition (low bacterial
 wilt infestation) and another group plays the game in the other condition
 (high bacterial wilt infestation).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
