#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=black, urlcolor=blue, citecolor=blue, pdfstartview={FitH}, hyperfootnotes=false, unicode=true"
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
\begin_inset Preview

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
author{Bjorn Van Campenhout
\backslash
thanks{Development Strategy and Governance Division, International Food
 Policy Research Institute, Leuven, Belgium - corresponding author: b.vancampenho
ut@cgiar.org} 
\backslash
footnotemark[3] , David J Spielman
\backslash
thanks{Development Strategy and Governance Division, International Food
 Policy Research Institute, Kigali, Rwanda}, and Robert Sparrow
\backslash
thanks{Development Economics Group, Wageningen University and Research,
 The Netherlands}}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset

Demand and supply factors constraining the emergence and sustainability
 of an efficient seed system: A pre-analysis plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
This document formalizes and declares the design and analysis plan for the
 study.
 It includes the full list of hypotheses that we intend to test, how we
 will measure variables relevant to those hypotheses.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overview of the study design
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Uganda, various demand and supply factors constrain the emergence and
 sustainability of an efficient seed system and value chain.
 We use a full factorial cluster randomized control trial 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "crespi2016improved"

\end_inset

, we evaluate the impact of X interventions on demand and supply of improved
 seed in Uganda.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There seems to be a renewed interest in agricultural technology adoption.
 This is mostly driven by the Agricultural Technology Adoption Initiative
 (ATAI), a collaboration between MIT’s Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action
 Lab (J-PAL) and UC Berkeley’s Center for Effective Global Action (CEGA).
 This initiative funds randomized evaluations to illuminate what helps and
 what hinders farmers to adopt technologies and access markets.
 Various review articles summarize the (often ongoing) research 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "jack2011constraints,de2017field,de2016agricultural,doi:10.1146/annurev-resource-100517-023202"

\end_inset

.
 There are now studies looking at externality related inefficiencies, input
 and output market inefficiencies, land market inefficiencies, labor market
 inefficiencies, credit market inefficiencies, risk market inefficiencies
 and informational frictions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Information is an important barrier to technology adoption.
 For seed in particular, This includes asymmetric information
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
availability/indivisibility
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
cash/credit.
 We do not expect that this is an important barrier.
 In general, seed is not all that expensive and available in small quantities.
 Most studies that look at the effects of relaxing credit constraints find
 effects on fertilizer use or the use of chemical inputs, which is more
 expensive.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "doi:10.1146/annurev-resource-100517-023202"

\end_inset

 concludes that credit is a barrier to technology adoption, but only one
 that binds for a minority of farmers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
risk
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I think some of the mayor issues we have seen and may include in the study
 are the following:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Look at teww
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
there is still a debate about whether there is indeed that much adulteration
 as some high flying articles want to make us believe...
 At least part of the low quality may be due to unintentional and related
 to for instance poor stocking and handling.
 So I think we may want to include an intervention on storage/handling of
 seed.
 Or something on seed replacement? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another hot topic, also from a policy perspective, may be related to enforcement
 versus (stick versus carrot) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our proposal promises that we will look at both demand and supply side constrain
ts.
 I struggle somewhat with this divide: while some interventions may try
 to increase supply, this may also have effects on demand.
 For instance, if farmers We will test 3 interventions.
 One intervention addresses demand side constraints only, one supply side
 constraints only and one both.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Farmers do not buy seed because they perceive it to be fake.
 We will just give them info.
 There is a study that simply says that: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

we know that normally, the seed you buy in shops is fake, but this seed
 is real
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 (Where did I see this???)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Shop keepers do not sell good seed because there is no enforcement of standards?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
hypotheses
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our main confirmatory hypotheses relates to the overall increase in use
 of improved seed.
 This will be manifested by an:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
increases the use of improved seed by farmers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
increases sales of improved seed by seed providers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We would like to explore which factors may be driving these changes in demand
 and supply.
 Therefore, we will also test if
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
increases satisfaction rates of seed use by farmers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
unit of analysis, population, and inclusion/exclusion criteria
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
method (observational, experimental, quasi-experimental)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
experimental intervention or explanatory variable, and 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
outcomes of interest
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For continuous variables, 5 percent trimmed values will be use (2.5 percent
 trimming at each side of the distribution).
 Logarithms will be used if the ratio of skewness to its standard error
 exceeds 1.96.
 Trimming and log transformations will always be done on end results.
 For instance, if the outcome is yield at the plot level, then production
 will first be divided by plot area, after which yield is trimmed and logarithms
 taken.
 Outcomes for which 95 percent of observations have the same value within
 the relevant sample will be omitted from the analysis and will not be included
 in any indicators or hypothesis tests.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For some outcomes, details at plot level will be needed (for instance, for
 the use of improved seed).
 However, farmers often have more than one plot.
 As outcomes on different plots within the same household are likely to
 be strongly correlated and the interventions are assigned at a higher level,
 it may not be cost effective to survey all plots.
 An unbiased estimate of the outcome at the household level can be obtained
 by randomly selecting one plot.
 To do so, we ask enumerators to first list all plots, with names to which
 farmers refer to the plots (eg.
 home plot, irrigated plot, plot near the sugar cane factory,...).
 The ODK program then randomly selects one plot for which detailed questions
 are asked.
 We have piloted this method and it seems to work very well.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
yield
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
profit 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Inference Criteria
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Throughout the study, we will rely on randomization inference, with the
 difference-in-means as our test statistic.
 In general, two-tail tests will be used, and we use traditional confidence
 thresholds of 10, 5 and 1 percent.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To correct for multiple hypotheses, we will follow two approaches.
 First, we follow the method proposed by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "anderson2008multiple"

\end_inset

, that uses inverse covariance weighting to produce an index that appropriate
 rewards new information from a family of measures.
 Second, we run an omnibus test to assess the joint probability of observing
 the theoretically predicted pattern of results under the sharp null of
 no effects.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "caughey2017nonparametric"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Dealing with Missing Outcomes from Survey Questions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some respondents will not answer one or more questions that measure an outcome.
 When respondents do not answer one or more questions that measure an outcome
 as we field our survey, our procedure is as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We will assess the relationship between missing outcomes and treatment assignmen
t using a hypothesis test and report these results.
 If p<.05 for the assessment of the relationship between treatment and missing
 outcomes, we will report an extreme value bounds analysis in which we set
 all of the missing outcomes for treatment to the (block) maximum and all
 missing outcomes for control to the (block) minimum.
 If p≥0.5 for the assessment of the relationship between treatment and missing
 outcomes, we will impute the missing outcomes using the mean of the assignment-
by-block subcategory.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "seed_systems_pap"
options "IFPRI_Style"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
